Add docs for auth decorators (#1210)
vivid-planet/comet: docs/docs/auth/index.md

---
title: Authentication
sidebar_position: 10
---

TODO general information about how we handle authentication

## Available Decorators

### @PublicApi

> `@PublicApi()` can be used to expose a handler (one query or one route) or a whole class (resolver or controller) publicly.

Reviewer: I guess this also applies to mutations

```suggestion
`@PublicApi()` can be used to expose a handler (one query, mutation or route) or a whole class (resolver or controller) publicly.
```

Author: @thomasdax98 done, thanks

> `@PublicApi()` can be used to expose a handler (one query, mutation or route) or a whole class (resolver or controller) publicly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`@PublicApi()` can be used to expose a single handler (query, mutation or route) or a whole class (resolver or controller) publicly.
```

:::caution

Use with caution at class level because later added handlers are automatically public.

:::

### @DisableGlobalAuthGuard

> `@DisableGlobalAuthGuard()` can disable the global auth guard (`CometAuthGuard`). This can be used if a different authentication method is desired (e.g., basic authentication). Assign a class a custom guard with `@UseGuards`. The custom guard can leverage `@PublicApi` as well to expose handlers publicly.

Reviewer 2: Should we add an example for this? And be more insistent that a custom guard should be implemented instead?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`@DisableGlobalAuthGuard()` disables the global auth guard (`CometAuthGuard`). This may be used if a different authentication method is desired (e.g., basic authentication) for a specific handler or class. It should be used in combination with a custom guard. The custom guard may leverage `@PublicApi` as well to expose handlers publicly.
```

Reviewer 2: Example:

```ts
@DisableGlobalGuard()
@UseGuards(MyCustomGuard)
async handlerThatUsesACustomGuard(): {
  ...
}
```
```
